the mothers have reason to be worried a
male from another pride will readily
kill their young the instant is the
stage a preemptive strike working
together they're a match for any male
but unfortunately their hair-trigger
aggression has caused a serious mistake
this male is from their own pride event
their remaining aggressions on each
other for highly strong predators
violence comes with the territory it's
best not to take it personally
Cubs are usually a few weeks old before
their mother risks introducing them to
their father he tends to be a bit rough
the kids the Cubs are mesmerized by this
200 kilo Goliath he may be a hundred
times bigger than they are
but lying down he seems relatively
harmless even so touching him is playing
with
his fuels can be even shorter than their
mothers there's nothing quite like
putting your head in the lion's mouth in
parenting lions are from the old school
they aren't afraid of disciplines like
human children comes our more Restless
than their parents but they soon learn
to relax for 20 hours each day
she's the biggest meerkat they've ever
seen
and require serious examination she's
been made to smell like the colony
so this reassures me each day different
volunteer set up a crash giving all the
child support and Lada could wish for
this year rules including sentry duty it
demands concentration and it's easy to
lose focus
and sometimes it's good to have someone
watching your back
being a sentry is a risky business as
they are easy targets for predators but
with young pups to protect they take
greater risks by climbing higher here
they can see predators earlier but are
vulnerable to birds of prey their
self-sacrifice is about to be tested
but this is no ordinary Cobra it's a spy
Cobra with no regard for her own safety
she prepares to face the snake
[Music]
she react as she would to the real thing
bravely protecting the colony with no
thought for herself our aim is to harass
the snake into leaving but the spy snake
holding its ground the meerkat calls for
reinforcements this is where fraternity
comes into its own
[Music]
an intimidating wall of meerkats face up
to spy Cobra
[Music]
they push their luck as far as the deer
goading the snake to strike
[Music]
real snakes tie our easily so it's a
matter of wearing it down
[Music]
but one meerkat senses there's something
different about this serpent in me Lu
can move like a real snake but it shows
no sign of leaving spy snake has been
well and truly rumbled satisfied he's
harmless the meerkats go back to what
they enjoy best relaxing among friends
our story begins with a tantalizing
glimpse of something very special a cow
just ten days old wild cubs as young as
this have never been filmed before for
their first six weeks most Cubs usually
hide away in their dens hardly glimpse
in daylight these are unusually
adventurous they seem totally unaware of
the dangers although their eyes are just
opening they won't see clearly for
another six weeks
they're the mother's first litter and
they're going to be quite a test for her
the Tigers must pick them up by the
scruff of the neck it's a delicate
operation and it had too much pressure
and she'll hurt her cub she can bite
through the force of nearly 500 kilos
but this requires the gentlest touch
Tigers usually have two or three comes
before are quite a handful and these
already seem more challenging than most
the ratio between the sexes among
newborns is usually equal true to form
two of these cubs are male and to a
female it will be rare indeed for all
four of them to reach maturity many
dangers lie ahead
at this size they make a snack for even
the smallest predator their mother must
make sure that everyone is accounted for
with to back in the den and one on its
way there's only one straggler left to
worry about
the Cubs contact cry make sure he's not
forgotten as long as the Cubs call their
mother is compelled to keep retrieving
them but this would try any mother's
patience the young Cubs life is very
precarious had the mother been away
hunting at a moment like this the
outcome could have been very different
[Music]
she's clearly going to be a devoted
mother but she still has a lot to learn
this is not the way to do it
human such behavior is unprecedented
it gives us an extraordinary opportunity
to follow these Cubs as they grow at a
jungle hut this female finds a saw
despite being totally wild somehow she
has worked out what to do with it
like us a rainy terns have an opposable
thumb that allows them to grasp and
handle objects with precision over 20
years ago a rescue orangutan learned how
to solve by watching people constructing
the huts here but this is a totally
different and wild orangutan she seems
to take pride in her work even clearing
away the sawdust
she's so smart she uses her feet was a
vice to steady the branch filming a wild
born and free living orangutan mastering
this complex task is remarkable but no
she's not the only orangutan sawing spy
orangutan has joined her
[Music]
seems to be bringing out a competitive
streak she's becoming even more
enthusiastic
[Music]
but for a novice sewing is tiring world
she's lost all momentum
[Music]
then finally calls ER today spy
orangutan may have machine-like stamina
but is the astonishing and versatile
mind of the real orangutan that's won
the day
she certainly earned her rest every leak
in River has a resident population of
hippos they too are social creatures but
they are also a territorial
spy hippo is going where a few others
dare to go
he needs to be cautious
[Music]
his subjects are notoriously bad temper
and they could be anywhere
[Music]
it's never a good idea to get on their
wrong side
spy hip who has been given a warning we
must avoid sudden movements as he gets
closer your wiggling shows confidence
facing one of Africa's most dangerous
animals spy hippo
must hold his ground the pod is made up
of females looked over by a single male
fortunately females are less aggressive
spy hippo is already capturing some of
the closest views that have ever been
seen but hippos spend much of their time
below the surface as the hippos dive zoo
must spy hippo
he mimics their movements rather than
swim hippos walk underwater
[Music]
through the mark spy hippo glimpses an
extraordinary sight
[Music]
fish are shadowing the hippos every move
these are Barb's they usually feed on
the riverbed but when the hip was appear
they shawl around them as spy hippo
moves closer it's clear that their skin
is a maze of cuts and scratches these
fight marks easily become infected and
parasites can also invade this is where
the fish come in
together they set up an underwater
clinic with the hippos as willing
patients the barbs may be skin
specialists but they'll try a bit of
dental hygiene too
[Music]
after having a full-body treatment the
hippos seem to enter a trance
[Music]
[Applause]